154 nonrconn.

modo, adv. only, but, lately‚

narro, ore, -avi, etum, ua.

now...now; (with subjunct.) it relate, tell.

mlillii, -i‚ m. moderatiori, the

naggor, -i‚ nulus, dep. v. n. be
rn.

mean, mannen eius modi, os uitales, lum, m. lineage, family.

that kind.

Moesia, 4³2³,st Moesia, a Roman
province in the Belkans3 mod.
Bulgaria and Servia (roughly).

moles, -is‚f mass, weight.

mollio, -ire‚ lvi, llum, oa.
sosten, lighten.

momentum, -i, n. fluctuation,
cnsrs.

Mona, seſs Anglesey. ,

mons, montis, m. mountain.

monstro, -ere, ovi, otum, ua.
show, point out, display.

monumentum, -i‚ n. memorial.

mora, -ιο, f. delay, long period,
slowness.

morior, ·i‚mortuus,dtp.v.n. die.

mors, mortis, f death.

mortalis, -θ, m. mortal.

mos, moris, m. custom; also in
pl. mores, character, morals.

motus. ·lls‚ m. rising.

mox, adv. soon.

mucro, ·6nis,ſs sword·point.

muliebris, -ο, αφ’, womanish.

muliebriter, adv. in womanish
way.

muller, eris, f woman.

multltfldo, -1nis, f host.

multus, o, -um, adj. rnuch,
nrany; mullum, to great ex-
tent, much3 multo, by much.

mllnlolplum, -ii‚ n. township.

munimentum, ·i‚ n. fortification.

munio, tre, -lri, itum, ua.
fortify.

munus, kris, n. burden, duty,
service due to state.

mutatio, -onis, fl erchange.

moto, -ere, -avl, etum, ua.
change.

mittum, -α, ·um, aclJ'. mutual.

narn, namque, adv. lor.

nolio, -onis, f tribe.

nutura, oe, f. nature, world,
character; nutura rorum, the
elements, the world.

aethralis, -ο, aff. natural.

nauticus, o.. -um, adj. navat.

ulvis, ·is‚ s ship.

ne, uio. a sign of question,
whether.

ne, adv. not; (with subjunct.)
lest; ne...quldem, not...even.

nobule, utus. mist, sog. κ

neo, neque, conj. and not, nor;
nec enim, nor in fact.

necessitas, -tutis, f. conrpulsion,
necessity.

negotiator, orla, m. business·
man, dealer.

nemo, -lnis, m. no one.

neque. See nec.

nequeo, -ἱτο, -lvi, v.n. be unable.

nereio, ·ire‚ -ivi and -ii, itum,
ua. be ignorant ol, be unable.

neuter, -η, -rum, αφ’. neither.

neve, conj. nor.

nl, nisi, conj. unless.

nihil, n. nothing.

nimius, -α, um, αφ’, too much,
too strong, excessive.

nlsl. See nl.

nitor, -ἰ, ulnus, dep.v.n. strive.

no, nore, neri, nalum, un.
swnn.

nobilis, -ο, αιῇ, notable, noble;
superl. nobilissimus, -ι, urm.

nobilitas, hatis, fi nobility.

noctu, adv. by night.

nomen, luis, n. name.

non, adv. not ; non iem, no
longer.

nondum, adv. not yet.

nonus, ·a, -um, αφ’. ninth.

noluero, ere, novi, nolum, uu.
earn.

 

